well it is the end of day seven of group
stage with covers presented by you GG
I'm joined right now by Steve from Team
Liquid to talk a little bit about how
the matches Wednesday so unfortunately
the team did not make it out of groups
what has sort of been your experience
today as you've watched the team battle
it out my experience today has been
filled with a feeling of bitter
sweetness I guess you know I am it was
like these moments that are really
fantastic and I think watching the team
play EDG was one of those moments I was
sitting in the backstage and just
listening to the communication from the
team and how fluid and decisive and
creative the calls were and how their
play was so leaning in and aggressive it
was it was just like amazing you knows
it was almost like we had built this
amazing team throughout the year right
and it had taken hits along the way and
we had solved those problems and
although all the while we had like
learned how to play this game really
really well and then when we got here
there was this like cloud of anxiety and
nervousness and expectation and it just
made it like unclear and so it was it's
just tough to like know that the team is
so good so yeah I guess there was part
of it so that were like amazing like
that and then you know other parts where
you see them not playing up to their
potential which are really rough but you
know for me it it's we set out to make
worlds that was like the big goal for
the organization we had never been and
it's it's odd cuz like you set a goal
and you're like I don't I want to go to
Worlds and then you achieve it and then
suddenly I don't
it's just like human nature to be like I
want more you know like no I won't I
want to get out of groups and then if we
make it out of groups that have been
like oh no I want a world championship
it's like things aren't just good enough
you know and so I actually thought that
I was gonna be pretty content and fine
but then once etg beat Katy I was just
yeah I was like I was pissed and I was
like fuck this sucks you know so it's
just a bunch of different emotions I
guess one of the things that you
mentioned was that once the team got
here you felt like there was a bit of
anxiety and and I don't know if you were
saying was that on the teams and like
you just kind of felt like there was a
little bit of like worrying and anxiety
for the team yeah I think it's we're all
individuals were all humans you know I
think it hits us in different ways some
of its like nervousness some of this
anxiety some of its pressure some of its
like a fear to you know a fear to not
lose versus like a courage to win you
know a lot of the stuff that was said
very eloquently by some of the coaches
for some of the EU teams I mean that's
just so true you know and cloud9
you know reapered and those players they
found a way you know they just found a
way on that day to just say you know
what let's just play let's just play
let's just have fun let's let's be
confident let's fight you know let's
just enjoy League of Legends and yeah it
just happened too late for us kind of
heading off some of the the comments
that I know will come out which is why
is the team having you know emotional or
mental issues whenever they get to these
international events why is the organ
enough to make sure that they get here
with the confidence that they need
either by like a sports psychologist or
that type of infrastructure I don't know
if you want to comment on sort of what
TL has done there or where you think
they fell on short or any of that yeah
we took a actual big focus on
mental acuity and mental health this
whole season we had Jared who was our
licensed support psychologist a mental
coach spent a ton of time with the team
on-site and working one-on-one we had
counseling sessions with the guys like
that were really positive and great we
made sure to have a really good
work-life balance we introduced the
training facility instead of just having
the guys work and live out of the same
house we provided budget for
entertainment and fun we we we really
did take a balanced methodical good
approach it just didn't you just can't I
guess you can't control some things and
it didn't it didn't work out exactly as
we wanted it in the time that we needed
to you know and so yeah maybe there's
some things that we still need to figure
out but we we as an organization
provided quite a bit and we see need to
rethink what we can do and improve on
for next year I made this week one of
the things that happened was Tom who I
think is affiliated with Team Liquid
ironically came out and said that he
thinks that the North American players
don't try as hard or they get easily
distracted and play other games or
whatever I don't know if do you have any
any commentary on that because certainly
since that conversation took place and
he'll losing today I do think people
will sort of bring it up and say like
hey were these guys actually trying as
hard as they could have were they
working as hard as the other regions did
they do everything they could have to
try to win yeah I mean I can't speak to
how hard some of the other regions are
practicing or trying and I am Not sure
that even comparing on that is the right
solution to figuring out whether or not
we put in everything I can speak to the
amount of effort that the team and each
respective individual on the team plus
the coaching staff and myself have put
in terms of time and effort and focus to
the season it's been incredible there's
I mean just like the whole stuff with 49
it's just a mean I don't know I can't
speak for any other teams but at least
for Team Liquid it's it's not true
just bullshit it's not why we lost you
know I don't know it's just so what
happens next I know you're just moments
off of this this last match but what
what should fans expect to see from Team
Liquid in the coming months because
obviously right now they're left maybe a
little shell-shocked or disappointed I'm
sure they they kind of want to hear from
you as to what the organization will be
doing next for the team and the fans and
you know League of Legends in general
yeah you know for Team Liquid in League
of Legends like this has been a
fantastic year right like we've went
further than we've ever went and we've
accomplished such an amazing triumph
triumph in especially after what had
happened in 2017 so that's great it's
still not enough though like being here
and tasting like how close we could be
to like making out of groups and
actually achieving a world championship
and and to probably follow cloud nine
and how they'll do for the remainder of
this tournament we're we're all in like
not only do we I believe have some of
the best infrastructure of any other
team in North America we have one of the
best teams and we're gonna refocus we're
gonna take a little break you know
everybody deserves it and we're gonna be
right back on it and you know that's
exciting I I'm excited for for next year
yeah anything to say to the fans I love
you guys love all of the tl fans that
support us and join all of our
communities pretty amazing actually like
our discord generals popping off it's so
much fun just hanging out in there but
yeah thank you for supporting the
organization and I know that you are
disappointed from today but we will
focus for next year and yeah thank you
so much T for taking the time to do the
interview I know tough day for you but I
really appreciate the conversation for
everyone else you can check out the rest
of my coverage of all
world's right here on my youtube channel
hey y'all this is normally where I would
do an outro where I plug you GG our
sponsor and some sort of funny way given
that it's more somber interview I just
thought I'd mentioned that they
supported our coverage of this event and
that there's a link in the description
if you want to check them out I do
really appreciate that and as as much as
I prefer to tell happy winning stories
sometimes do you ever tell stories like
this and I wouldn't be able to to get
this type of interview if it wasn't for
their support and sending us here so
anyway thanks to you da GG thanks for
watching everyone I hope you continue to
enjoy the world's coverage that that's
coming to this channel thanks